# ProveIt

At long last, we have the technology. You can finally _prove_ to your friends that you liked that band before they were cool! :ok_hand:

### To Interact with ProveIt
Visit the shiny and highly functional [ProveIt website](https://noahzinsmeister.github.io/ProveIt/)!

### Some Semi-Technical Background
ProveIt implements proof of historical data possession on the Ethereum blockchain. What this means in practice is that any Ethereum address can submit a 32-byte cryptographic hash to ProveIt's ledger and gain the ability to prove that the owner(s) of this address wrote/possessed the text/data that resolves to the hash at a particular time. The ledger also allows addresses to stake arbitrary amounts of Ether alongside their entries, lending credibility.

### Hypothetical Use Cases
* __Alice__ is a rabid Elon Musk fan, and wants to make a prediction about Musk's glorious future endeavors. Using her Ethereum address __Address<sub>Alice</sub>__, __Alice__ could submit ```By 2030, a company founded or owned in part by Elon Musk will have delivered a human to the surface of Mars.``` to the ProveIt ledger at time __T__. At any point from now until 2030, __Alice__ could submit evidence of her ownership of __Address<sub>Alice</sub>__ in standard ways (i.e. by signing a credible message via something like the [Etherscan verifySig tool](https://etherscan.io/verifySig)), thereby proving that she made this statement at time __T__. This makes her seem prescient, and more importantly, affirms her Musk fanhood. One could imagine, however, that a rival Musk supporter __Bob__ might submit many such messages, varying the year, and revealing only the one that makes him appear most credible. To combat this issue, __Alice__ can lock up an arbitrary amount of ether, __x__, alongside her statement. This amount cannot be recovered without destroying the associated ledger entry. If we assume that __Bob__ must submit 20 different entries to have a high probability of ending up with at least one very close prediction, he’s forced to lock up 20*__x__ ether to guarantee that his revealed entry will have the same amount of credibility as __Alice__'s, dissuading him from attacking.
* __Alice__ also moonlights as an amateur paparazza, and manages to snap an incredibly ~~compromising~~ flattering photograph of Elon at time __T__. She’s desperately worried that the photo will be stolen and published by __Bob__ at __T+1__, depriving her of all potential proceeds. If __Alice__ wants to be able to prove that she possessed this photo at __T__ she could simply make a (cryptographically secure) 32-byte hash of this photograph, and store the hash in ProveIt. The data that produced this hash will of course be unknown at __T__, but upon __Bob__'s release of the photo at __T+1__, __Alice__ could prove her prior possession by letting anyone see that the photo hashes to the entry that she made in ProveIt at time __T__.
* __Alice__'s day job is as a professional economist. She runs a lot of [randomized controlled trials (RCTs)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randomized_controlled_trial), and in the spirit of value-free scientific inquiry, she often wants to publicly commit herself to a particular statistical hypothesis **_H<sub>0</sub>_** before running an RCT to prevent ex-post [p-hacking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_dredging). She could of course use the [American Economic Association's RCT Registry](https://www.socialscienceregistry.org/site/about), but centralized solutions are so 2017. A better idea would be to formulate an appropriate **_H<sub>0</sub>_**, store its hash in ProveIt, and reveal it after the RCT has concluded. In addition to the commitment mechanism, this method has the benefit of not revealing **_H<sub>0</sub>_** to rival economists (looking at you __Bob__) who might steal her idea. Of course, nothing prevents __Alice__ from submitting many **_H<sub>0</sub>_** s, and only revealing the most favorable one ex-post. To combat this, verifiers should only trust __Alice__ if she submits her hash to ProveIt, publicizes it along with her name, and associates it with her current project, all before running the RCT. This reputationally commits her to a single **_H<sub>0</sub>_**. 

### Technical Notes
* While building ProveIt, I realized that having set functionality would be helpful, so I implemented it in contracts/Sets.sol. It's quite efficient, with O(1) insertion, removal, and existence checks.
* Contracts of interest are deployed at:

| Contract   | Address                                    | Link                    | Network |
|------------|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------|
| Prover.sol | 0x117ca39dffc4da6fb3af6145dfff246830637fe2<br>0x286e1143ab350d0238be4494da6dab9ca3662517<br>0x286e1143ab350d0238be4494da6dab9ca3662517 | [verified on Etherscan](https://etherscan.io/address/0x117ca39dffc4da6fb3af6145dfff246830637fe2)<br>[Etherscan](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x286e1143ab350d0238be4494da6dab9ca3662517)<br>[Etherscan](https://ropsten.etherscan.io/address/0x286e1143ab350d0238be4494da6dab9ca3662517) | Mainnet<br>Rinkeby<br>Ropsten |
| Hash.sol   | 0xca260ffffb0270ee07ec6892fa9d44f040454e4d<br>0x125bbe680d2c6665151ad8c9c89727a64683fdcb<br>0x125bbe680d2c6665151ad8c9c89727a64683fdcb | [verified on Etherscan](https://etherscan.io/address/0xca260ffffb0270ee07ec6892fa9d44f040454e4d)<br>[Etherscan](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x125bbe680d2c6665151ad8c9c89727a64683fdcb)<br>[Etherscan](https://ropsten.etherscan.io/address/0x125bbe680d2c6665151ad8c9c89727a64683fdcb) | Mainnet<br>Rinkeby<br>Ropsten |
| Sets.sol   | 0x48d904b3bf1cfcd7e1ce2dbcf7dcaecf0b0575c6<br>0x2aacb774a7214075372b52e24ff7391a4e3ea883<br>0x2aacb774a7214075372b52e24ff7391a4e3ea883 | [verified on Etherscan](https://etherscan.io/address/0x48d904b3bf1cfcd7e1ce2dbcf7dcaecf0b0575c6)<br>[Etherscan](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x2aacb774a7214075372b52e24ff7391a4e3ea883)<br>[Etherscan](https://ropsten.etherscan.io/address/0x2aacb774a7214075372b52e24ff7391a4e3ea883) | Mainnet<br>Rinkeby<br>Ropsten |

### Tips
Accepted, not required!
ETH: 0x8688a84fcFD84d8F78020d0fc0b35987cC58911f
